Edict ideas:

-Martial law
The army contributes to security as well as police, people who violate the law may be killed or harmed.

-Legalize abortion
Lowers the chance of disabled children to appear if a pregnant person has access to healthcare, may reduce natality rates.

-Free marriage
Increases the likelihood of couples yielding babies.

-Mandatory education
Basic education is mandatory.

-Military service
All adults can be drafted, with a cost to their political satisfaction.

-Pollution standards
Polluting private businesses are forced to pay extra taxes.

-Social security

-Natality control

-Drug control
Forbids drugs from being sold as commodities and leaves them only to be used medically. May cause crime.



Settlers
Citizens that have been paid to settle someplace and are able to build buildings.



-modos de juego
	masacre
	colonización



En un edificio comercial entre diferentes sitios hay una serie de ofertas comerciales.
Cada comerciante puede mantener un determinado volumen comercial. Hay ofertas más densas, que requieren el trabajo de más comerciantes, y menos.
Las ofertas de comercio van variando.
-Cuantas más ofertas de un tipo mantengas, aparecerán más del otro (compra/venta).
-Cuanto más aumente la densidad de un tipo de comercio de un recurso (sea recursos generales, arena, basura, agua o cualquier otro) menos favorables serán los tratos.
-Los precios internacionales pueden variar (y lo harán continuamente) y el precio de las ofertas variará cuasiproporcionalmente. Si la varación es muy grande y significativa (+-10% por unidad) se te ofrecerá la opción de interrumpir la oferta si es una variación desfavorable. Recíprocamente, la oferta tiene un 20% de probabilidades de ser interrumpida si te favorece mucho.
-Un jugador humano en modo multijugador puede hacer ofertas mediante proposiciones de oferta y acuerdo de otro jugador.
-Se puede prohibir la importación o exportación de ciertos bienes por parte de ciudadanos privados.



Rivers can't flow straight. They have to keep making curves.



Water pressure could indicate how far a water supply can supply.



Nativos
Habitan sus propios poblados, pequeños núcleos de población consistentes en un campo de trabajo con granjas y chabolas alrededor.
Se puede comerciar con ellos, intercambiando recursos. Normalmente ofrecen minerales, plantas y animales.
Pueden incorporarse a la civilización, buscar trabajo en tu ciudad, irse a vivr allí...
Su crecimiento poblacional está limitado, y unos pocos de sus habitantes tienen formación avanzada.



Evolución de un edificio:
Torre de telégrafo > Torre de teléfono > Torre de telecomunicaciones



Nurseries
Children normally need at least one adult to stay over at home and care of them, forcing parents to have one of them not working, and forcing single families to be jobless.
Nurseries take care of children when their parents aren't present, allowing both parents or single parents to work, and orphans to survive.



-nurse



//Una unidad equivale a 1/18 m^3 ó 1 fanega?

1 fanega (10*10 tiles): enough to maintain one cow

A tile (8*8 m2) yields on average 8 kg of a crop.



fracking: turns water deposits into oil?



Airlifts?
Teleféricos?
They can transport over buildings and mountains. They use electrical power (electrically powered wires).

Trains should be able to have electrically powered wires over rails as technology progresses.



canal:
permite a barcos entrar en él



banana shaped blimps



Plants not growing in their optimal climate can take longer to grow, require more water (if climate is drier), more fertilizers (if climate is wetter or colder) and produce less. Harsh winters affect plants that are weak to coldness specially, and draughts can affect specially plants that are adapted to humid climates.
An ore can have between 1000 and 20000 metal units.
An unit can be an equivalent to 1/25 cubic meter.

Las plantas fuera de su clima óptimo pueden tardar más en crecer (si el clima es demasiado seco), requerir más fertilizantes (si es demasiado húmedo o frío) y producir menos. Los inviernos duros afectan especialmente a plantas poco resistentes al frío, y las sequías afectan especialmente a plantas autóctonas de climas húmedos.
Una mena puede tener entre 1000 y 20000 unidades de metal.
Una unidad puede equivaler a 1/25 de metro cúbico.



Having agricultural vehicles increases reach and production of farms.



Selling stocks of a company gives you money, but it will deny you access to the company's resources and services and you'll have to pay for them, and the benefits will the divided afterwards.
Profits will be divided between anyone working as an investor.



Warnings:
"The population is larger than what the predicted harvest can feed!"
"¡La población es demasiado grande para lo que la cosecha proyectada puede alimentar!"

"There are starving citizens!"



A system that generates a two dimensional image of the city by the side, to have an image of the city for the save game file.



A sight of the map becomes available after the first politechnic college is built.



el precio al que se vende un producto privado depende de la variedad de empresas vendiéndolo que hay en el mercado



-embassy
-an ambassador being harmed or killed harms relations



-can build water mills on water jumps (varying water level between tiles)



resource properties
type -> luxury
boolean -> storeable (if false, it's strictly a "flow" resource)



border police: police that watches over a line and catches whoever steps in that line of tiles



plot economy:
gdp'(t)  gdp''(t)
+        +        green (economy is growing, growth is accelerating)
+        -        light green (economy is growing, growth is stalling)
-        +        yellow (economy is shrinking, shrinkage is stalling)
-        -        red (economy is shrinking, shrinkage is accelerating)

plot population:
gdp'(t)  gdp''(t)
+        +        blue (population is growing, growth is accelerating)
+        -        baby blue (population is growing, growth is stalling)
-        +        light green (population is shrinking, shrinkage is stalling)
-        -        green (population is shrinking, shrinkage is accelerating)



map generation
-underground water supplies form somewhere with a lot of sediments
